---
title: Angle Resolved Photoemission Spectroscopy
sidebar_label: ARPES
---

### Introduction
The electronic band structure of a material constitutes the macroscopic basis of
its physical properties; whether a solid is insulating, semiconducting,
metallic, or superconducting, or if the material is transparent, or shows a
distinct color, is determined by its electronic structure. The classical
properties, like thermal conductivity, heat capacity etc. are determined by the
electronic structure too. A detailed understanding of the electronic structure
through microscopic investigations, along with theoretical analysis, is
necessary in understanding and engineering new materials allowing for tunable
control of their properties. The electronic states in a material is described by
energy, momentum, and spin of the electrons.

### Photoemission spectroscopy
Photoemission spectroscopy is the most powerful, and the only tool available to
directly probe the electronic structure of a material. Photoemission
spectroscopy is based on the principle of photo-electric effect, in which the
sample under investigation is irradiated with a beam of photon (laboratory
discharge lamp or x-ray source or synchrotron light sources). If the energy of
the incident photon $(h\nu)$ is large enough for the electron to overcome its
binding energy and the work function of the material, an electron is emitted
from the material, and can be detected by an electron spectrometer. The electron
spectrometer records the kinetic energy of such electrons detected in a
particular angle. The angular information is directly related to the momentum of
the electron while inside the material. This in tern, let us learn about the
full electronic bands inside the material.

<img
  src={require("/img/arpes-band-schematic.png").default}
  alt="arpes-band-schematic"
  width="400px"
/>

<div class="fig-caption">
<b>Figure:</b> Schematic of the photoemission process. The density of states of
outgoing electrons is proportional to that of the material. This schematic is
taken from the Hufner's book.
</div>

Let us consider a material which has the above electronic structure: it has two
core levels, and valence band near the Fermi energy. Now, if we measure the
intensity distribution of photo emitted electrons as a function of electronic
kinetic energy, we would see something like shown in above figure. It is
straight forward that the photoemission intensity is proportional the density of
electronic states of the material, however, the spectra is broadened due to the
finite resolution of the experimental technique.

<img
  src={require("/img/arpes-schematic-2.jpg").default}
  alt="arpes-schematic-2"
  width="400px"
/>

Before the photon is absorbed by the electron, photon may travel a finite
distance inside the material. After the photon is absorbed by the electron, the
electron can travel in all direction, however we can detect only the electrons
that are coming out of the surface. Also, the mean free path of electron inside
a solid is very small. It depends on the kinetic energy of the electron. For UV
photons, the typical mean free path is of the order of few angstrom. That is why
photoemission spectroscopy in the UV range is extremely surface sensitive.

Now, the most important question is: what information can we obtain about the
material by analyzing the energy and emission angle of the photo-emitted
electrons. In every physical process, the total energy and momentum of the whole
system is conserved. From the energy conservation, we can determine the binding
energy of the electronic state from where the electron is photo-excited. And
from the momentum conservation, we can determine the momentum vector of the
electronic state. Therefore, we can effectively map the bandstructure of a
material by ARPES.

This single particle assumption of the photoemission process is simplified. In a
real material, the electrons are not independent free particles. They are
subject to many-body interaction. Therefore, interpreting the band structure
from the observed photoemission spectra is not often trivial. We need some
theoretical modelling and understanding of the system.
